---
title: Docker
date: 2024-12-13 10:38:00 +0800
categories: [Linux_Basics, Services]
tags: [docker]
description: Review of Docker software.
#media_subpath: /path/to/media/
#pin: true
---

## What is Docker?

Docker is an open-source platform that allows developers to automate the deployment of applications in containers. A container is a standard unit of software that packages the code and all its dependencies, ensuring that the application runs consistently across different environments.

## Docker Features

- **Containerization**: Allows packaging applications and their dependencies into isolated containers.
- **Portability**: Containers can run on any system that has Docker installed.
- **Scalability**: Facilitates horizontal scaling of applications by creating multiple instances of containers.
- **Resource Efficiency**: Compared to virtual machines, containers are lighter and use fewer resources.
- **Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD)**: Easily integrates into CI/CD workflows, enabling automated deployments.

## Uses of Docker

- **Development**: Create consistent development environments.
- **Testing**: Run tests in isolated and reproducible environments.
- **Deployment**: Efficiently deploy applications to production.
- **Microservices**: Facilitate microservices architecture using independent containers.

## Basic Docker Commands

### Check the installation

```bash
docker --version
```

### Run a container

```bash
docker run [image]
```

### List running containers

```bash
docker ps
```

### List all containers

```bash
docker ps -a
```

### Stop a container

```bash
docker stop <container_id>
```

### Remove a container

```bash 
docker rm <container_id>
```

### Download an image

```bash
docker pull <image_name>
```

### Create and run a container in interactive mode

```bash
docker run -it ubuntu /bin/bash
```

### Build an image from a Dockerfile

```bash
docker build -t <image_name> .
```

### List available images

```bash
docker images
```

### Remove an image

```bash
docker rmi <image_id>
```
