---
title: OSI Model
date: 2024-12-12 13:14:00 +0800
categories: [Linux_Basics]
tags: [protocols]
description: Summary of the OSI model.
#media_subpath: /path/to/media/
#pin: true
---

## Layer 1

 - **Physical Layer** -> Responsible for the transmission of raw data over a physical medium, such as cables and electrical signals. It defines aspects such as physical connectivity and the electrical characteristics of the medium.    

## Layer 2

 - **Data Link Layer** -> Provides error-free communication between two devices on a local network. It manages the MAC address and handles error detection/correction at the frame level.

## Layer 3

 - **Network Layer** -> Responsible for routing data between different networks. It uses IP addresses and controls the data traffic across the network.

## Layer 4

 - **Transport Layer** -> Ensures complete and correct data transfer between end systems. It provides services such as flow control, data segmentation, and error recovery. Key protocols: TCP and UDP.

## Layer 5

 - **Session Layer** -> Establishes, maintains, and terminates sessions between applications. It manages the dialogue between applications and may provide session control and synchronization.

## Layer 6

 - **Presentation Layer** -> Handles the representation of data, including encoding and compression. It ensures that data is presented in a way that the application layer can understand, such as converting data into different formats.

## Layer 7

 - **Application Layer** -> Provides network services directly to applications. It is the layer closest to the user and manages the interface between software and the network. Common protocols include HTTP, FTP, and SMTP.