---
title: SMB (Server Message Block)
date: 2024-12-13 10:38:00 +0800
categories: [Linux_Basics, Services]
tags: [smb]
description: Review of the SMB service.
#media_subpath: /path/to/media/
#pin: true
---

## What is SMB?
It is a network protocol that allows to share resources like files and printers among networks. It makes easier the communication between operating systems, primarily in Windows environments.

## Features
- **File sharing**: Allows access to remote files and directories.
- **Remote printing**: Enables the use of printers connected to other devices.
- **Interoperability**: Works across various operating systems like Windows, Linux, and macOS.
- **Authentication**: Includes mechanisms to authenticate users and protect data.

## How it works
1. **Connection**: A client connects to an SMB server.
2. **Negotiation**: Versions and supported features are negotiated.
3. **Resource access**: The client can access files and printers based on configured permissions.

## Security
- **Encryption**: SMB 3.0 and later versions support encryption of data in transit.
- **NTLM and Kerberos Authentication**: Authentication methods used to verify identities.
- **Firewall configuration**: It is important to properly configure firewalls to allow SMB traffic.

## Useful Commands (Linux)
- `smbclient`: Command-line client to access SMB resources.
- `smbmount`: Mount SMB file systems on the local system.

## Useful Commands for Smbclient

`smbclient` is a command-line tool to access shared resources over SMB networks. 

### Connecting to a Shared Resource

#### List shares
```bash
smbclient -L [ip]
```

#### Connect to a share 
```bash
smbclient \\\\[ip]\\[share]
```

### Navigation and Operations on the Shared Resource

#### List files in the shared resource
```bash
ls
```

#### Change directory
```bash
cd directory_name
```

#### Download a file
```bash
get file_name
```

#### Upload a file
```bash
put file_name
```

#### Delete a file
```bash
del file_name
```